# Venusian-Experimental-Ground-Atmosphere-Network
The goal of the VEGAN mission is to further the knowledge gained by the Vega and Venera missions that took place throughout the 20th century. Building on them, the reference for proposal[I.1] (RFP) states that the mission design requires the return of samples from Venus to Earth for further study. This proposal was expanded on by creating a mission that will not only land on the surface to complete analysis with advanced equipment, but capture and return samples from the atmosphere to Earth. Basic requirements for the mission consist of the lander surviving on the surface for at least 3 hours, longer than any previous mission, and the successful return of atmospheric gas and particle samples to Earth. The RFP suggests a mission timeline with launch in 2029 so this is set as the year for the launch window. With this launch window the mission will take approximately 16 months to complete. 
The mission must depart Earth for Venus on October 29, 2029 for an optimal transfer. Once reaching Venus, the orbiter will use aerobraking to put itself into a 400 km parking orbit around the planet to await the completion of the lander and Venusian Air Vehicle (VAV) missions. Once the circular parking orbit has been achieved, the orbiter will wait until the correct trajectory to reach the landing site is achieved and then deploy the descent vehicle containing the VAV and the lander. At 80 km the descent vehicle shell will break up, and the lander and VAV will separate. The lander will continue to the surface where it will begin in-situ measurements. The VAV will slowly descend to 50 km, taking 3 atmospheric samples and deploying an aerogel capture system for particulate matter. At 50 km, the main engines will fire, boosting the VAV back up to a stable circular orbit at 400 km. Once in this orbit, the orbiter will maneuver to rendezvous with the payload of the VAV. The payload will be transferred to the orbiter for transfer back to Earth. At this point, the orbiter will wait in the parking orbit to transmit data gathered from the lander or until the lander ceases operation. A burn will be performed by putting the orbiter on a transfer orbit to the Earth. Once it arrives at Earth, the orbiter will rendezvous with the ISS to deliver the samples for analysis.

